---
title: "Introduction"
subtitle: "A Visual Guide to Income in America and How it is Taxed"
color: red
page: chapter
background: cover.jpg
---
Every year, in the months leading up to April, Americans spend hours filing their income tax returns. As a result, most adult Americans are somewhat familiar with how the individual income tax works. In fact, the income tax code is one of the only parts of federal law that almost every American has dealt with personally.

But filling out a tax return offers only a small glimpse of the entire federal income tax system – of nearly 150 million households, thousands of pages of laws and regulations, and over $1.5 trillion in tax payments. More importantly, the individual income tax creates economic and social consequences larger than any single tax return can reflect.

In order for taxpayers to comprehend these consequences, the income tax needs to be examined from several angles: as a source of federal revenue, a tool for social welfare spending, a set of economic incentives, and a subject of policy debates.

Understanding the income tax also requires context. Income in America looks different today than a few decades ago, due to demographic and economic forces. In addition, the federal income tax should be understood against the backdrop of the federal tax system as a whole and in comparison with income taxes around the world.

This book is your visual guide to these different ways of understanding the federal income tax. In over forty charts, we lay out a picture of income in America and of the income tax’s economic and social effects.

In addition, this book provides background on some of the key issues of the tax reform debate. How progressive is the federal income tax? How does it affect decisions about work, saving, and marriage? What is its effect on the U.S. economy? This book provides insight into each of these questions and several more.

As tax reform becomes an increasingly important national topic of discussion, our hope is to arm citizens and lawmakers with the facts necessary for an honest and productive debate.
