---
title: "Cities Don’t Just Obtain Revenue from Taxes"
subtitle: "Taxes and Other General Revenue per Capita, San Diego and Select California Cities (FY 2014)"
chart: 2-1.svg
chart_layout: square
---
The amount of general revenue raised by cities varies. In 2014, San Diego collected $830 per person in taxes and an additional $86 per person in other general revenue, amounting to a total of $916 per person
in total general revenue. San Jose and Los Angeles are close to San Diego on this metric, while Fresno is much lower (a total of $455 in general revenue per person).

It’s important to note that cities also receive many other types of program-specific income, such as fees and charges for services, intergovernmental grants, and fines, which are not included here.

> Note: “Other General Revenue” includes all items under “Total General Revenue” that are not derived from
tax collections in each city’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report. This includes general operating grants (that aren’t for specific functions or programs), interest and investment income, and miscellaneous revenue. It does not include fees, fines, or charges for government services or business-like activities (such as utility charges or sanitation and health), or dedicated operating and capital grants and contributions. San Francisco was excluded here because it is not strictly comparable to the other cities on this metric, since it is a joint city- county entity. This makes the size of San Francisco’s government look much larger than the other cities.
>
> Source: Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports for the cities of Fresno, San Jose, San Diego, Los Angeles, and San Francisco (FY 2014).
