---
title: "San Diego Spends the Largest Share of Expenditures on Public Safety, like Other Cities"
subtitle: "Total City Government Expenditures per Capita, San Diego and Select California Cities (FY 2014)"
chart: 2-6.svg
chart_layout: wide
---
In 2014, San Diego spent 41 percent of total expenditures on public safety. Eighteen percent went to general government operations, and 13 percent went to parks, recreation, culture, and leisure programs. The remainder was spent on capital outlays, transportation, debt payments, sanitation and health, and community development. Most cities spend the largest share of their total expenditures on public safety.

> Note: “Total City Government Expenditures” include all city government funds, not just the General Fund. The expenditure categories included in San Jose’s and Fresno’s financial reports do not have all categories that are comparable to the other cities. San Jose includes a “Community Services” category that encompasses the following: Airport; Environmental Services; Housing; Library; Parks, Recreation, & Neighborhood Services; and Building, Planning, & Code Enforcement. Fresno includes a “Public Ways & Facilities” category that likely includes sanitation and transportation expenditures. Note that San Francisco is a joint city-county municipality and thus includes data on both city and county expenditures.
>
> Source: Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports for the cities of Fresno, San Jose, San Diego, Los Angeles, and San Francisco (FY 2014).
