---
title: "CHAPTER 2"
subtitle: "The Story of Income in America"
color: orange
page: chapter
background: chapter2.jpg
---
It is difficult to understand the federal income tax without looking at income in America, where it comes from, and who earns it.

Over the past fifty years, the United States has experienced large-scale demographic and social changes, which have changed the face of income in America. The Baby Boomer generation has begun to retire, marriage rates have declined, and workers are more likely to be paid in benefits.

Because of these changes, the distribution of income in America looks different today than fifty years ago – more concentrated among the elderly and two-earner couples, and less likely to be paid in wages and salaries.

Of course, another important change in America’s distribution of income has been the rising levels of income inequality since the 1970s. The story of income inequality is more complicated than usually presented, because of several issues with the measurement of income. Meanwhile, other measures, such as consumption inequality, tell different stories altogether.

But even though income in America has changed over time, some aspects of income remain exactly the same. There are still two basic ways to make income: through work and investment. Workers continue to make around 72 percent of national income in wages and salaries, as they have for the last eighty years. And it remains just as possible today as it was forty years ago for each new generation to move up and down the income ladder, earning different levels of income than their parents.
