---
title: "CHAPTER 3"
subtitle: "Who Pays Taxes?"
color: blue
page: chapter
background: chapter5.jpg
---
Much of the debate about the federal income tax revolves around the question of who should pay taxes—whether to raise rates on rich Americans, use the tax code to help low-income households, or lower the tax burden on the middle class. Yet, often missing from these debates is a sense of how much different groups of Americans actually pay in taxes currently.

The federal income tax is progressive: it imposes higher rates on individuals with higher incomes. For example, the top 1 percent highest-earning Americans pay over twice the average income tax rate of the other 99 percent of taxpayers. Even though not all federal taxes are as progressive as the income tax, the federal tax system as a whole remains quite progressive, with households earning over $1 million paying 33.1 percent of their income in taxes.

As a result, the operations of the federal government are largely funded by taxes on wealthy Americans. Almost half of federal revenues come from households making over $200,000. Meanwhile, in 2012, the lower-income half of American taxpayers only paid 2.8 percent of all federal income taxes.

Of course, taxes are only part of the picture. Government transfer programs, such as food stamps and Medicaid, significantly increase the share of national income held by the poorest households. Low-income Americans benefit extensively from these programs, receiving over $8 in federal benefits for every $1 they pay in taxes.

There are many definitions of what a “fair” tax system looks like, but debates about how to make America’s tax system fair should always be grounded in the facts about who pays taxes.										
