---
title: "CHAPTER 4"
subtitle: "What Incentives Does the Income Tax Create?"
color: blue
page: chapter
background: chapter4.jpg
---
Taxes change people’s behavior. Every day, individuals and businesses make decisions about work and investment by weighing costs and benefits. Even slight changes in the tax code can shift the balance, altering the incentives that taxpayers face and changing how they participate in the economy.

Some of these incentives can be harmful to American families. For families in poverty, moving to a higher-paying job often means receiving less federal assistance, making it difficult for low-income individuals to increase their incomes through working. Then, as soon as these households move out of poverty, their tax burdens begin to increase very rapidly, making additional work less profitable.

The income tax code also gives strong incentives for households to consume, rather than save. Investment income, such as capital gains and dividends, faces two levels of taxation under U.S. law, leading Americans to save and invest less.

Unfortunately, many of the incentives that the U.S. tax code creates are complex and confusing. A family of four may face up to eight different tax rates on the first $50,000 it earns, ranging from negative 47 percent to positive 44 percent. And a couple considering marriage might receive a large tax bonus for marrying, or a significant penalty, depending on their incomes and the number of children they have.

Because the tax code affects practically every aspect of American society, it is essential to understand the incentives it creates for individuals and families.
