---
title: "CHAPTER 5"
subtitle: "How Does the Income Tax Compare Internationally?"
color: blue
page: chapter
background: chapter5.jpg
---
Overall, the United States collects less in taxes than other developed nations. Among the 34 countries in the Organisation of Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), only two countries raise less tax revenue than the United States as a share of their economies.

However, even though the U.S. has lower taxes on average than other countries, the U.S. tax system is structured differently than those of most developed nations. The U.S. relies heavily on taxes on income, while other countries tend to tax the consumption of goods and services instead.

As a result, the United States actually has some of the highest tax rates in the developed world when it comes to investment income—such as capital gains and dividends. Many countries do not impose any taxes on capital gains, so as not to add a second layer of taxation on investment. The U.S., on the other hand, has the sixth highest tax rate on capital gains among developed nations and the ninth highest rate on dividends.

While the U.S. has high taxes on investment, it taxes workers much less than most of the developed world. Between federal, state, and local income and payroll taxes, the U.S. imposes an average combined tax rate of 31.5 percent on labor, the 10th lowest rate among developed countries. However, when it comes to high-income workers, the U.S. levies higher top marginal tax rates than other developed countries, one sign that the U.S. tax code is relatively progressive compared to other developed nations.

As the U.S. moves toward comprehensive tax reform, it will be useful to keep the tax systems of other developed nations in mind, as a source of context and comparison.
