---
title: "Chapter 6: What Would Happen if We Fixed the Tax Code?"
---
Almost everyone agrees that the current U.S. tax code is complex, inefficient, and unsound. The individual income tax, in particular, contains dozens of credits, deductions, and exclusions that benefit narrow interests, don’t always make sense, distort the economy in numerous ways, and reduce federal revenue by billions of dollars every year.

Meanwhile, the U.S. economy remains sluggish, and saving and investment are in a long-term decline. So, many politicians have turned to tax reform as an opportunity to spark economic growth and improve Americans’ lives.

One of the easiest ways to bring about economic growth through the individual income tax code is simply to lower rates. Lower tax rates make work and investment more profitable, giving households the incentives to grow the nation’s economy. In particular, lower taxes on investment would help expand America’s economic infrastructure, contributing to long-term growth.

Of course, lowering tax rates would increase the federal deficit. One way to reduce the deficit effects of lower tax rates is by eliminating or limiting some of the expensive, narrowly-targeted provisions in the tax code, such as the mortgage interest deduction or the deduction for state and local taxes. This strategy—of lower rates and a broader tax base—is the most promising path to tax reform.

Fixing the tax code isn’t just about making filing season easier for American families; it’s also about insuring America’s long-term prosperity.
